# Library Management System  Python Project | Pacmann AI

## Overview
Library management system in python - This is one of the most popular project among college students / beginners.it will help to hold all tasks in the computer system. which more helpful to the library manager. Here, we have given a brief introduction on what is Library Management System and its features:
          What Is Library Management System?
Library management software or library system is a collection of tools that assist librarians in organizing, managing, cataloging, maintaining, and retrieving information regarding the organization’s libraries and other associated collections and services such as periodicals and databases (Mollica). It supports several aspects of library operation such as acquiring materials for the library, tracking the use of books, journals, or magazines, creating bibliographic records, and providing user access to these resources.
Library Management System Project In Python and MySQL connection.
For Database connection here I was used Xampp which handles the data in the system.
it's a mini-project which helpful for beginners to improve knowledge and simple SQL queries are executed. Python, Python is very smooth to research the syntax emphasizes readability and it is able to reduce time-ingesting in developing. In this mode GitHub, I have explained how to create a LMS in Python with Mysql Database as a backend.
 This project has been done in Python3 and MySQL as back end database management system for library system application programming. In this video you can see that how we install Python 3, then download and install MySQL-python module, then start creating tables of the Database and connecting with the Database table through Python code and also explain some SQL statements in Python and show you how to write them in SQL format and connect to database with python. It is a basic tutorial on building an online Library Management System using Python with MySQL as backend.
